---
layout: page
title: Working Group Meeting 2020
hero_image: /../img/ess-ciwg-banner.png
hero_height: is_fullheight
---

<h1 style="text-align:center;color:rgb(24,142,172)"> 
  Environmental System Science (ESS) Working Groups Annual Meeting 
</h1>
<h2 style="text-align:center;color:rgb(24,142,172)">
  Virtual Meeting - May 23, 2022
</h2>

<p><strong>Agenda</strong></p>
<div>
<table>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>11:00-11:10</td>
<td>Welcome, orientation to goals, structure of the meeting</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>11:10-11:30</td>
<td>Cyberinfrastructure Working Group flash talks
<ul>
<li>Data Management</li>
<li>Data-Model Integration</li>
<li>Software Engineering and Interoperability</li>
<li>Computing Infrastructure</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>11:30-12:30</td>
<td>Charu Varadharajan (LBNL) and Forrest Hoffman (ORNL)AI4ESP workshop report out and moderated discussion including workshop leaders and seed project PIs. <a href="https://www.ai4esp.org/workshop/" target="_blank" rel="noopener">https://www.ai4esp.org/workshop/</a>. Flash talks from seed projects:&nbsp;
<ul>
<li>Mavrik Zavarin (LLNL) - ML for experimental geochemistry data</li>
<li>Bobby Jackson (ANL) - OPENCRUMS</li>
<li>Forrest Hoffman (ORNL) -AI-Constrained Ecohydrology for Improving Earth System Predictions</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>12:30-1:00</td>
<td>Break</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>1:00-2:30</td>
<td>Flash talks: Communicating new, exciting CI capabilities and engaging the ESS community in shared CI needs.
<ul>
<li>Jon Schwenk (LANL) - Veins of the Earth</li>
<li>Danielle Christinason (LBL) - BASIN-3D data integration software</li>
<li>Ethan Coon (ORNL) - Watershed Workflow</li>
<li>Gilberto Pasterello (LBNL) - ONEFLUX development</li>
<li>Giri Prakash (ORNL) - ARM data management capabilities and AI Strategies</li>
<li>Rob Crystal-Ornelas (LBNL) - ESS-DIVE reporting formats</li>
<li>Forrest Hoffman (ORNL) - ESGF plans</li>
<li>Shawn Serbin (BNL) - Simplifying simulation workflows via containerization&nbsp;</li>
<li>Kurt Maier (PNNL) - COMPASS compute plans</li>
<li>Ben Sulman (ORNL) - Coupling E3SM and PFLOTRAN using Alquimia</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>2:30-3:00</td>
<td>Group Discussion
<ul>
<li>Synthesize flash talks, collect feedback, community funds, prepare for breakouts.</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3:00-3:30</td>
<td>Break</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>3:30-4:45</td>
<td>Breakouts: Working Groups tackle common themes from their perspective&nbsp;
<ul>
<li>What are new challenges?</li>
<li>What are the gaps in CI that we could fill?</li>
<li>How to spend community resources?</li>
<li>How to coordinate and share CI developments and capabilities across projects?</li>
<li>How to integrate with AI/ML - AI4ESP?</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>4:45-5:00</td>
<td>Wrap-up/What&rsquo;s next</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
</div>
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>


