---
layout: page
title: Working Group Meeting 2017
hero_image: /../img/ess-ciwg-banner.png
hero_height: is_fullheight
---

<h1 style="text-align:center;color:rgb(24,142,172)"> 
  Environmental System Science (ESS) Working Groups Annual Meeting 
</h1>
<h2 style="text-align:center;color:rgb(24,142,172)">
  Bolger Center, Potomac MD, April 24, 2017
</h2>

<div>
<table style="width: 100%">
    <colgroup>
       <col span="1" style="width: 15%;">
       <col span="1" style="width: 85%;">
    </colgroup>
<tbody>

<tr>
<td>8:30 - 8:45</td>
<td>Welcome: BER perspective and goals
<ul>
<li>David Lesmes, Jay Hnilo, BER – CESD</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>8:45 - 9:15</td>
<td>Overview of WGs, and working group activities
<ul>
<li>Executive Committee updates (Data Center Report)</li>
<li><a href="/events/working_group_meeting_2017/CESD_CWG-Data-Management-ESS-PI2017.pdf">Data Management</a> (Danielle)  </li>
<li><a href="/events/working_group_meeting_2017/CESD-CIWG_Model-Data-Integration_2017.pdf">Model-Data Integration</a> (Forrest, Xingyuan)</li>
<li><a href="/events/working_group_meeting_2017/ESS-WG-SEI-AnnualMeeting-2017.pdf">Software Engineering and Interoperability</a> (David)</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>9:15 - 9:25</td>
<td><a href="/events/working_group_meeting_2017/ideas-productivity-overview-ess-wg2017.pdf">Highlights of IDEAS and IDEAS-ECP</a> Lois Curfman McInnes (ANL)</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>9:25 - 9:35</td>
<td><a href="/events/working_group_meeting_2017/CMDV_Description_ESS_Data_Mtg_Apr-2017_Riley.pdf">ACME/NGEE Liaisons: Updates from the CMDV-land project</a> Bill Riley (LBNL)</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>9:35 - 9:45</td>
<td><a href="/events/working_group_meeting_2017/Hoffman_CESD-CIWG_20170424.pdf">Highlights of ILAMB</a> Forrest Hoffman (ORNL)</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>9:45 - 10:15</td>
<td>BREAK</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>10:30 - 10:45</td>
<td><a href="/events/working_group_meeting_2017/20170424-ESS-CI-Mtg-ESS-DIVE-Intro.pdf">New ESS Data Center Overview</a> Deb Agarwal (LBNL)</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>10:45 - 11:00</td>
<td><a href="/events/working_group_meeting_2017/comnunityoverview_versteeg.pdf">Highlights of (Non-DOE) Community Cyberinfrastructure</a> Roelof Versteeg (SSI)</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>10:45 - 11:00</td>
<td><a href="/events/working_group_meeting_2017/comnunityoverview_versteeg.pdf">Highlights of (Non-DOE) Community Cyberinfrastructure</a> Roelof Versteeg (SSI)</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>11:00 - 11:15</td>
<td>Overview of CSDMS, Training, and Potential Interactions Elchin Jafarov (LANL)
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>11:15 - 11:30</td>
<td><a href="/events/working_group_meeting_2017/ESS_WG_Painter_Mishra_ISMC_UM.pdf">Overview of ISMC, Objectives, status, etc.</a> Scott Painter (ORNL), Umakant Mishra (ANL)
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>11:30 - 11:45</td>
<td><a href="/events/working_group_meeting_2017/ESIP_DOE_April_2017_final.pdf">Overview of Earth Science Information Partners (ESIP)</a> Tracey Pilone (Element84/ESIP)
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>11:45 - 12:00</td>
<td>Public View (web) / Governance / Business Model David Moulton (LANL)
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>12:00 - 12:00</td>
<td>Open Discussion (What we heard so far, and what comes next)
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>12:00 – 1:00</td>
<td> LUNCH
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>1:00 - 2:20</td>
<td>Data Center Discussion
<ul>
<li>Presentation with more detailed plans for the Data Center, </li>
<li>Clarify plans for community engagement in tools?</li>
<li>Includes everyone for the discussion</li>
<li>Has a component of projects/WGs expressing concerns and needs</li>
<li>Opportunity for Data Center folks to respond, and have open discussion</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>2:20 - 2:30</td>
<td>Preparation for Breakout Sessions
<ul>
<li>Set groups (~4 to get numbers right)</li>
<li>Ensure integration of new Data Center team </li>
<li>Set tasks using Use Cases derived from ModEx cycle</li>
<li>Provide templates for output from the groups?</li>
<li>Is this the material that is pitched back to the group?</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>2:30 - 3:00</td>
<td>BREAK
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>3:00 - 4:30</td>
<td>Breakout: Develop vision for the future with  near term goals, and develop pitch for high priority activities that WGs could help with.
<ul>
<li>Session A: Data Management</li>
<li>Session B: Model Data Integration
<ul>
<li>Geospatial analysis and remote sensing</li>
<li>Model evaluation and benchmarking</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>Session C: Model Data Integration
<ul>
<li>Data assimilation and uncertainty quantification</li>
<li>Workflows</li>
<li>Jupyter notebooks</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>Session D: Software Engineering and Interoperability</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>4:30 - 5:00</td>
<td>Report Out
<ul>
<li>Near term goals, and 1-slide pitches for near term activities that need support (we’ll collect these for BER to review and we’ll work with them on identifying possible path forward - e.g., proposals to SBIR)</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>5:00</td>
<td>Adjourn
</td>
</tr>

</tbody>
</table>
</div>
<p>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</p>

